Top Tracks Filter (#1830)
moq-wg/moq-transport: draft-ietf-moq-transport.md

> All filter types are combined using logical "AND" operations

Reviewer: Please separate out the Object filters from Track filters in this paragraph, because the only overlap is property filters and the way it's written now is confusing.

Author: Agreed, updated.

to further restrict which tracks and objects pass all filter criteria.
This includes all Range Filters {{range-filters}}, Location Filters
{{location-filters}}, and Top Tracks Filters {{top-tracks-filters}}.
Top Tracks Filters always evaluate first before all other filters
which can be evaluated in any order.
The Forward parameter is also a type of filter.  The publisher MUST
forward only objects that pass all filters.

~~~

> Pass = Top Tracks Filter AND Forward AND Location Filter AND Range Filters

Reviewer: This line is particularly confusing and I think incorrect, because the previous sentence talks about Objects and the Top Tracks filter applies to Tracks, not Objects.

Author: Agreed, updated.

## Filtering SUBSCRIBE_TRACKS

The Top Tracks Filter {{top-tracks-filters}} can be used in SUBSCRIBE_TRACKS
to filter Tracks in a namespace using a specified Track or Object Property.
Range Filters {{range-filters}} can be used in SUBSCRIBE_TRACKS to filter
Tracks in a namespace using the Track Property Filter. Objects published in
the resulting Subscriptions can be filtered by any Range Filter.

### Top Tracks Filters

The TOP_TRACKS_FILTER parameter {{top-tracks-filter}} selects a specified

> number (N) of tracks within a namespace with the highest Property Values

Reviewer: We have a number of examples where we say we want the lowest or even 'top 5' and 'bottom 5' Tracks.  How about adding a way to do lowest N as well?  It seems like a tiny increase in implementation complexity and avoids people having to publish the same property in two different ways, which I think is the current solution to that problem?

Reviewer 2: I think it complicates upstream especially when subscribers need different views. My preference is to avoid it unless there is a strong use-case.

Author: We can add Bottom N as an option in a later PR if people want it. I haven't heard strong demand for this, but we can ask.

> for a specified Track or Object Property Type which MUST be even, i.e.

Reviewer: If a Property is both a Track and Object Property, the Object Property value overrides the Track Property value.

Using 'or' here is a bit confusing, because it could be that you're looking at both.  Please add a specific sentence about the case when you're looking at both.

Author: Agreed, updated.

a single integer value (see {{moq-key-value-pair}}).

It is encoded with a Length prefix in bytes which MAY be 0 to indicate

> no filter, which can be used to remove the filter in REQUEST_UPDATE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is encoded with a Length prefix in bytes. A length of 0 indicates
no filter, which can be used to remove the filter in REQUEST_UPDATE.
```

~~~
TOP_TRACKS_FILTER Parameter {
  Type (vi64) = 0x29,
  Length (vi64),
  Property Type (vi64),
  MaxTopTracks (vi64),
}
~~~

MaxTopTracks limits the number of tracks selected concurrently,
which MUST NOT be 0 and MUST NOT exceed the MAX_TOP_TRACKS setup option
value sent by the peer, either of which is a `PROTOCOL_VIOLATION`.

> TopTracksTimeout {{top-tracks-timeout}} is a Track Property

Reviewer: I would have expected this to be a part of the Top Tracks Filter, not a Track Property.  Is the reason to make it a Track Property just because you expect the Publisher to know better than the Subscriber?

Author: Yes, timeout was originally part of the filter parameters, but moved to a track property since it should be set by the publisher for all subscribers.

that limits the number of milliseconds a selected track can remain
selected without publishing an object with Property Type.
Timeout in the next section refers to this Track Property.

#### Track Selection

Tracks are promoted to the selected state, demoted to the
deselected state, or purged back to the unknown state as

> shown in the following diagram. Objects only pass the filter
> for tracks in the selected state, as shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
shown in the following diagram. Only Objects from selected
Tracks are published.
```

~~~
        +--------------+
        +   UNKNOWN    |
        +  name/alias  |
        +--------------+
             ^    |
             |    |     Newly Selected    +------------+
PUBLISH_DONE |    +---> PUBLISH FWD=1 --->|  SELECTED  |
as needed to |             Promoted       |  in Top N  |
limit state  |    +---> REQ UPD FWD=1 --->|   Tracks   |
             |    |       Reselected      +------------+
             |    |                             |
        +--------------+                        |
        |  DESELECTED  |<---- REQ UPD FWD=0 <---+
        | out of Top N |     Demoted/Timeout
        +--------------+

>           Objects FAIL                     Objects PASS
>            the filter                       the filter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

~~~

> A track is selected if it publishes an object with the top N highest
> value for Property Type, where N = MaxTopTracks.  The publisher

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A track is selected if it has published an object with one of the top
MaxTopTracks highest values for Property Type.  The publisher
```

MUST send a PUBLISH message for each newly selected track.  For tracks
with the same value, the track with the earlier delivered object wins
the tie breaker, so a selected track remains selected until another track
publishes a higher value that demotes it out of the top N, or Timeout
elapses before the track delivers an object that remains in the top N,
either of which deselect the track.  The publisher MUST send a

> REQUEST_UPDATE message with Forward=0 when a track is deselected.

Reviewer: Presumably this will need updating once #1820 lands?  Also, wouldn't it commonly make more sense to add/set an End Location on the Location Filter, rather than setting Forward, so the subscriber knows when the Subscription was paused?

Author: Updated to use PUBLISH_STATE_NOTIFY. If PR#1825 replaces Forward with Location Filter, I will do the same here after it lands.

The publisher MUST send a REQUEST_UPDATE message with Forward=1 when a
deselected track is reselected, which also updates the Joining Location
as described in {{joining-fetch-range-calculation}}.

Recently deselected tracks SHOULD be kept in a list to avoid more PUBLISH
messages in case a deselected track is reselected.  A relay SHOULD limit

> this list size to protect its resources by sending PUBLISH_DONE

Reviewer: If the Track is already paused and there's no need to ensure all the data arrived, then you can also reset the stream for the Subscription.

Author: This is for reclaiming resources even if no data streams, to purge all subscription state (alias, tokens, internals). The data streams should have terminated normally with FIN or RESET before the track was deselected. This reclaims resources long after deselection when a track is unlikely to be reselected.

messages to purge state for the oldest deselected tracks, putting them
back in the unknown state.  If a track is reselected after this, it is
considered newly selected so the publisher MUST send a PUBLISH message
again.  Relays SHOULD keep a list size large enough to avoid excessive
control messages but small enough to avoid excessive old subscription state.

> If the TOP_TRACKS_FILTER parameter is updated, the publisher evaluates the

Reviewer: I assumed you could update the MaxTopTracks, but can you update the Parameter as well?

Author: Assuming you mean update the property type not parameter, yes, there is currently no restriction. Do you think we should disallow updating the property type? I'm fine with restricting updates to MaxTopTracks (N).

new filter to determine the new list of top N selected tracks and follows
the same rules above for newly selected tracks in the top N (send PUBLISH),
reselected tracks in the top N (send REQUEST_UPDATE with Forward=1), and
newly deselected tracks demoted out of the top N (send REQUEST_UPDATE
with Forward=0).  It can also purge excessive old deselected tracks as
needed (send PUBLISH_DONE).

> If a Top Tracks Filter for a namespace overlaps with a direct subscription

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a Top Tracks Filter for a namespace overlaps with a SUBSCRIBE
```

> to a track name in the same namespace, it is considered to pass the Top Tracks
> Filter whether or not it is counted in the top N list, and MUST NOT
> be subject to filter state changes or actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to a track name in the same namespace, its state MUST NOT be modified
by the Top Tracks Filter and it does not change the Top N computation.
For example, if the Track is not in the Top N, then the Subscriber will receive a total of
N+1 Subscriptions from that Track Namespace.
```

Objects received with a location lower than the largest received in that track
are ignored for Top Tracks Filter state updates; however, if the track is already

> selected, they pass the filter.

Reviewer: I don't know what this is saying?  Are you trying to be specific about which Objects will be received from a Subscription?  If so, I'd suggest specifying the Location Filter Start and End when a Track is selected/deselected.

Author: Alan wanted some text to say that old (OOO) objects are ignored for Top filter evaluation. So if an old object arrives with a different property value than the latest object, the old value won't override the latest value. The last bit clarifies that while an old object is ignored for filter evaluation, it can still be forwarded if already selected. So ignored for updating filter state, but not necessarily dropped (not ignored for forwarding).

(see {{moq-key-value-pair}}), otherwise the endpoint MUST reject this with
REQUEST_ERROR with error code INVALID_FILTER. See {{range-filters}}.

### TOP TRACKS FILTER Parameter {#top-tracks-filter}

The TOP_TRACKS_FILTER parameter (Type=0x30) MAY appear in a SUBSCRIBE_TRACKS
message or REQUEST_UPDATE for it.  It selects a specified
number of tracks within a namespace with the highest Property Values for a

> specified Track or Object Property Type which MUST be even, i.e. a single

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specified Track or Object Property Type. This Property Type MUST be even, i.e. a single
```

integer value (see {{moq-key-value-pair}}), otherwise the endpoint MUST
close the session with a `PROTOCOL_VIOLATION`.

> See {{top-tracks-filters}} and {{max-top-tracks}}.

Reviewer: This paragraph doesn't say anything about the MAX TOP TRACKs Setup Option, so I wouldn't reference it here.

```suggestion
See {{top-tracks-filters}}.
```

specified, the peer MUST NOT send any such filter parameters.  If this limit is
exceeded, an endpoint MUST reject this with REQUEST_ERROR with error code INVALID_FILTER.

#### MAX TOP TRACKS

The MAX_TOP_TRACKS option (Type 0x09) limits the peer's value of
MaxTopTracks in the TOP_TRACKS_FILTER {{top-tracks-filter}} parameter.

> The default value is 0, so if not specified, the peer MUST NOT send any

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default value is 0, so if not specified, the peer MUST NOT send the
```

If omitted, the value is 0.

## TOP TRACKS TIMEOUT {#top-tracks-timeout}

TOP_TRACKS_TIMEOUT (Property Type 0x32) is a Track Property.

> See {{top-tracks-filter}}. If omitted, the value is 1000 milliseconds.

Reviewer: 1000ms seems like a short default timeout.  I'm not sure what the right default value is, but I'd expect is similar to the Group length?

Author: Relays generally don't know group length, although they could estimate it from past groups forwarded. I don't expect this property to be omitted if a track supports Top Tracks, so the default is for a corner/error case when omitted, not a typical value used for most tracks.
